# babel-intro

Using Babel to transform JavaScript code.

### Before You Begin

Be sure to check out a new branch (from `master`) for this exercise. Detailed instructions can be found [**here**](../../guides/before-each-exercise.md). Then navigate to the `exercises/babel-intro` directory in your terminal.

### Exercise

1. Read about Babel in the [official documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/).
2. Visit [this preconfigured Babel REPL](https://babeljs.io/repl#?babili=false&browsers=&build=&builtIns=usage&spec=false&loose=false&code_lz=Q&debug=false&forceAllTransforms=false&shippedProposals=false&circleciRepo=&evaluate=false&fileSize=false&timeTravel=false&sourceType=module&lineWrap=false&presets=&prettier=true&targets=&version=7.4.3&externalPlugins=%40babel%2Fplugin-transform-block-scoping%407.4.4%2C%40babel%2Fplugin-transform-arrow-functions%407.2.0) and paste the following ES2015 code in. Notice how Babel transforms the newer JavaScript syntax into older ES5 syntax.
    ```js
    const foo = 'bar';

    let i = 0;

    i += 1;

    for (let i = 1; i <= 10; i++) {
      console.log(i);
    }

    const baz = () => {
      console.log('qux');
    };

    baz();
    ```
3. Read about [Plugin Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plug-in_(computing)) on Wikipedia.
4. Go back to the Babel REPL in step 2 and notice the **plugins** that have been enabled.
5. Create a new `package.json` and install the following `devDependencies`:
    - `webpack`
    - `webpack-cli`
    - `@babel/core`
    - `@babel/plugin-transform-block-scoping`
    - `@babel/plugin-transform-arrow-functions`
6. Add a `"build"` script to `package.json` that runs `webpack`.
7. Read about [Webpack loaders](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/loaders/) in the official Webpack documentation, then install [`babel-loader`](https://github.com/babel/babel-loader) as a `devDependency`.
8. Review the `webpack.config.js` that is included in this exercise and notice the Babel plugins being used by `babel-loader`.
9. Run your `"build"` script with `npm` by doing `npm run build` in the terminal.
10. Look at the `dist/main.js` generated by Webpack and try to find the transformed code from `src/index.js`.

### Submitting Your Solution

When your solution is complete, return to the root of your `senior-front-end-lessons` directory. Then commit your changes, push, and submit a Pull Request on GitHub. Detailed instructions can be found [**here**](../../guides/after-each-exercise.md).

### Quiz

- What is Babel?
- What is a Plug-in?
- What is a Webpack loader?
- How can you make Babel and Webpack work together?
